all right word up today today we gonna
learn one of my favorites it's a mambo I
dig the Mambo I dig the heck out of the
Mambo one of the reasons I dig the Mambo
so much is because it makes you work on
so many different aspects of your play
and the coordination left foot right
foot it makes you avoid one which first
American drummers I don't know who else
not an American drummer out there but we
tend to hit down pits all the time so it
makes you avoid those and the Mambo just
like the cha-cha just like songho some
of the other ones you're going to be
basically compensating for three or four
missing percussions so each one of your
limb is going to be doing something
different first of all it's a fast four
so it's going to go one two three four
one two three four okay
let's kick get with the bass drum first
it's going to be acting to the Tamayo
pattern so it's going to be the ends of
twos for this you can do there's all
kinds of variations you can do before
you guys type in or let me know how you
know you can also do that this type of
pitch I know I'm gonna get to them but
today we're gonna have basic Mambo if
somebody says hey can you play Mambo you
go hey matter of fact I actually can and
you know a mom bro okay so we're going
to play the and up twos to measure loop
so one two and three four one two and
three four
right foot gonna go excuse me left foot
I just learned my life right for my left
this past you guys should be proud of me
left foots going to go on all quarter
notes one two and three four one and two
and three and four and one and two and
three and four and one and two and three
and four
that's imitating the checker right the
left hand is going to be imitating and
let me know you guys if I ever go too
fast in these videos type in and go slow
oh I'll slow down for you the left hand
is going to be imitating the conga
pattern so it's going to be imitating
this guy that's going to go except a lot
Buzzard boo boo boo that's my mouth
conga
thinking about licensing it and as an
instrument on MIDI so here we go
two and then four and on the town so 1 2
& 3 & 4 & 1 2 & 3 & a lot like the
cha-cha a mambo can is kind of sped up
cha-cha as far as this part goes so
quarters on the left foot 1 2 3 4 and a
twos on the right foot 1 2 & 3 4 1 2 & 3
2 2 4 1 2 3 4 1 now you're saying Steve
what's the problem with that that's not
hard no it's not that's really not hard
what's hard is the right hand the
cascara pattern it's going to be your
bell pattern usually I'd have me a mambo
bell right here or over here or someone
over here but today you can use for this
you can use the hi-hat sometimes you can
use the right some on the bell the ride
cymbal which usually and modified fusion
type settings is what you're going to
use the bell of the cymbal or you can
use down here side of the drum okay now
the pattern we're going to be doing is
in 3 2 clapping and it's going to go
just like this 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & 1 2 3 & 4
M 1 tip that real slow 1 2 & 3 & 4 & 1 2
3 & 4 & 1 okay now the accents are a
little bit strange the accents are going
to go 1 2 and so accenting one Xing at
the end of 2 1 2 & 3 & 4 exiting the end
of 3 then the end of 4 is a non accent
so 1 2 & 3 & 4 M it's a grace note
leading up to the 1 and the 2 which is
accented so 1 2 & 3 & 4 & 1 2 and an X
and 3 accented and of 3 1 2 3 & 4
and the and of 4 is not accident so here
we go super 1 2 & 3 & 4 & 1 2 3 & 4
& 1
two and three and four and one two two
and four on the side of the drum it's
going to sound like this one two and
three and four and one two the m4 & 1 &
3 & 4 1 2 2 & 4 Bell the cymbal
okay now the key is to add all that
together the cool thing about this is
nothing in these hands hits a
subdivision that this really doesn't hit
okay so we're also dividing off at
eighth notes at a fast tip let's get all
this going mid-tempo now that is your
basic Mambo okay quarters here and the
twos here two four and here and then the
bell pattern one two and three and four
and one two three and four and one okay
then all you have to do is work on speed
because these can be quite quick and
you're there you're great you know your
first mambo all right so I'll play it
quick kind of show you how that goes
I hope it helped if you've got questions
about the Mambo I'll be following this
up with some discussions on different
cost grow patterns different to battle
patterns and different hi-hat patterns
incorporating claw be on the high end
incorporating claw be on the left hand
some different Coon go type patterns so
hopefully you'll be able to by the time
we're done with this be somewhat versed
in the Mambo
so you
you